
Component Version Requirements
=============================================================================

RStudio requires relatively recent versions of a number of components. It is
therefore likely to only correctly configure and build on more recent Linux
systems. Specific version requirements for various components include:

- R 2.11.1
- CMake 2.6
- Pango 1.14

Desktop vs. Server Builds
=============================================================================

The dependencies described below are for RStudio desktop and server. If you 
only want to build the server then Qt is not required. In this case you can
invoke the install-dependencies scripts with a --server-only flag, e.g.

./install-dependencies-debian --server-only


Installing Dependencies
=============================================================================

1) R installation - building RStudio requires that a version of R be 
previously installed within a location where the R executable can be run from
the system shell (e.g. /usr/bin or /usr/local/bin). Building R from source
and then executing 'make install' will conform to this requirement as will
installing it using the system standard package management tools (apt-get, 
yum, etc).

2) Run the install-dependencies script appropriate to your platform's
package management system (for server-only builds be sure to include the
--server-only flag as described above)

   ./install-dependencies-debian   OR
   ./install-dependencies-yum

If you are installing dependencies for desktop and server builds then the 
last step of the installation will be the download and install of the Qt
SDK. Note that this is an interactive install -- you should accept all 
defaults provided by the Qt SDK installer.

NOTE: If you are installing on a platform that doesn't support the apt-get
or yum package managers you should review the scripts above and ensure the
equivalent dependencies have been satisfied on your system. In order
to install boost you should use the ./install-boost-linux script which
is also contained within the dependencies/linux directory.
